---
title: "0.6.2 Released"
date: 2025-11-03
params:
    banner: img/gallery/0.6.2_ScholzGeometryPath2015.jpeg
---

0.6.2 adds initial tooling support for OpenSim's upcoming/experimental Scholz2015GeometryPath component, order-independent transparency (OIT) rendering, and MSI/portable installers for Windows.

Pictured: Scholz2015GeometryPathExample.osim (included in the installation)

Additional information:

- Scholz2015GeometryPaths are based on Andreas Scholz's algorithms, outlined in https://lnkd.in/e2BQ7rmv. Pepijn van den Bos implemented the algorithm in C++ and merged it into Simbody. Nicholas Bianco integrated the algorithm into OpenSim, including adding the necessary via-point and decoration support. Scholz2015GeometryPaths are typically faster to compute than OpenSim's existing wrapping algorithm and can handle complex wrapping scenarios (pictured). Scholz2015GeometryPath is still work-in-progress, because real OpenSim models have additional requirements (initial wrapping conditions, unusual wrapping angles, simulation stability, ability to edit it in real-time without popping), but it's still good enough to ship right now.
- Order-Independent Transparency (OIT) is a rendering technique that's very useful when visualizing overlapping geometry. You'll notice that, in most 3D renders, transparent objects pop in-and-out when they overlap. That's because renderers usually handle transparency on a per-object basis (this is usually fine for controlled scenes, like in games). OIT rendering uses separate accumulation and compositing steps to work around that problem, which makes rendering a little slower, but makes it possible to view a geometrically-correct scene.
- MSI/portable installers on Windows are handy because they can be installed via a script with no user interaction. Course organizers and Windows sysadmins like that.

